# C-Maze-Project
Simple Maze Game Using C++
README File for MAZE FInal Project

Explain how my Program Works:
1. The Program firsts outputs greetings and instructions to the user about the game.
The Game is simply a maze of Ones and Zeros with 6 Rooms (R1, R3, R5, R6, R7, R8) and 2 Exits (E2 and E4.
The objective is to navigate either left, right,up or down along a path of Zeros to reach an exit in the least amount of moves as possible.
The Ones in the Maze represents Walls.

2. It then outputs the entire map of the maze for visual representaion to the user to try to memorize and move accordingly.
3. It then Shows the user which room the user is starting from:

Rooms are randomly generated by calling the rand function and by the modulus of the number of rooms. 

4.It then shows the user their starting Room position by displaying the values for Coordinates "row" and "col":
5. The screen is then cleared of steps 1 through 4 in order to prompt the user to memorize the maze and where they were.
  It then instructs the user to move up,down,left or right.

6. The program accepts the direction input from the user:
movement along the maze is done by adding or subtracting 1 row or 1 column.

7. The program then tries the movement by calling the move function continuously in a loop until an exit is found.
Move function returns E2 or E4 if exit is found.

8. The total amount of steps is then outputed along with the Expected amount of steps.
total amount of steps is determined by the amount movement is made to found exit.

9.If the Total amount of steps is geater than the expected amount of steps the program asks to try again by typing Y or N.
If the User types Y the program starts again by asking the user to enter a direction at step 5.
If the user does not type Y the program outputs a goodbye message and exits.

10. The program prints a congratulatory message If the total amount steps is equal to the expected step count.
expected step count is function determined by the exact steps from room to an exit.


The program runs and is efficient in a memory game type scenario. 
The program lacks an exit if the user feels stuck and wants to quit while playing the game.
program lacks a restart option.
The program lacks hints if the user needs help.
